git checkout - How can I undo changes to unstaged files?

	Suppose you have made changes to a file, then decide you want to undo them. Your text editor may be able to do this, but a more reliable way is to let Git do the work. The command:

	git checkout -- filename

	will discard the changes that have not yet been staged. (The double dash -- must be there to separate the git checkout command from the names of the file or files you want to recover.)

	Use this command carefully: once you discard changes in this way, they are gone forever.
	
git reset - How can I undo changes to staged files?

	At the start of this chapter you saw that git reset will unstage files that you previously staged using git add. By combining git reset with git checkout, you can undo changes to a file that you staged changes to. The syntax is as follows.

	git reset HEAD path/to/file
	git checkout -- path/to/file

	(You may be wondering why there are two commands for re-setting changes. The answer is that unstaging a file and undoing changes are both special cases of more powerful Git operations that you have not yet seen.)

git checkout <#commit> - How do I restore an old version of a file?

	You previously saw how to use git checkout to undo the change that you made since the last commit. This command can also be used to go back even further into a file's history and restore versions of that file from a commit. In this way, you can think of committing as saving your work, and checking out as loading that saved version.

	The syntax for restoring an old version takes two arguments: the hash that identifies the version you want to restore, and the name of the file.

	For example, if git log shows this:

	commit ab8883e8a6bfa873d44616a0f356125dbaccd9ea
	Author: Author: Rep Loop <repl@datacamp.com>
	Date:   Thu Oct 19 09:37:48 2017 -0400

		Adding graph to show latest quarterly results.

	commit 2242bd761bbeafb9fc82e33aa5dad966adfe5409
	Author: Author: Rep Loop <repl@datacamp.com>
	Date:   Thu Oct 16 09:17:37 2017 -0400

		Modifying the bibliography format.

	then git checkout 2242bd report.txt would replace the current version of report.txt with the version that was committed on October 16. Notice that this is the same syntax that you 

git reset - How can I undo all of the changes I have made?

	So far, you have seen how to undo changes to a single file at a time using git reset HEAD path/to/file. You will sometimes want to undo changes to many files.

	One way to do this is to give git reset a directory. For example, git reset HEAD data will unstage any files from the data directory. Even better, if you don't provide any files or directories, it will unstage everything. Even even better, HEAD is the default commit to unstage, so you can simply write git reset to unstage everything.

	Similarly git checkout -- data will then restore the files in the data directory to their previous state. You can't leave the file argument completely blank, but recall from Introduction to Shell for Data Science that you can refer to the current directory as .. So git checkout -- . will revert all files in the current directory.
